# PageRank-Hessenberg
1. Approximate the exterior eigenvalues via the Hessenberg process [1,2] for random matrices
also include the test by
1) Arnoldi process [3];
2) Hessenberg factorization generated by the Induced Dimension Reduction (IDR) method [4,5];
3) Generalized Hessenberg factorization generated by the IDR method [5].
PS: some details about runing the test, one can refer to the Repository from https://github.com/astudillor/IDR_EIG.

# PageRank algorithms:
1) Power method
2) Power method with Tan's extrapolation techniques
3) Power method + quadratic extrapolation
4) Arnoldi-type method
5) Hessenberg-type method
6) IDR(s)-based method (newly added, 2021-4-9)

2. Who want to run the PageRank test for comparison.
1) Download the necessary test matrices listed in our paper (i.e.,
soc-Slashdot0902,
amazon0312,
amazon-2008,
wiki-Talk,
ljournal-2008) from "The SuiteSparse Matrix Collection" (https://sparse.tamu.edu/).
2) Run the m-file "PageRank_test.m"
3) Look at the output information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# References:
1. J.H. Wilkinson, The algebraic eigenvalue problem, Oxford University Press, Inc. New York, NY, 1988.
2. H. Sadok, CMRH: A new method for solving nonsymmetric linear systems based on the Hessenberg reduction 
algorithm, Numer. Algorithms, 20(4) (1999), pp. 303-321.
3. W. E. Arnoldi, The principle of minimized iterations in the solution of the matrix eigenvalue 
problem, Quarterly of Applied Mathematics, vol. 9, no. 1951, pp. 17–29.
4. M.H. Gutknecht, J.-P.M. Zemke, Eigenvalue computations based on IDR, SIAM J. Matrix Anal. Appl., 
34(2) (2013), pp. 283–311.
5. R. Astudillo, M.B. van Gijzen, A restarted Induced Dimension Reduction method to approximate 
eigenpairs of large unsymmetric matrices, J. Comput. Appl. Math., 296 (2016), pp. 24-35.

# License
This software is distributed under the MIT License.
